
GITHUB – (TEAM FREE THINKERS)

INTRODUCTION OF GIT

Firstly, before knowing what GIT is, it is important to know about what Version Control System.
Version Control System (VCS) is a software that helps software developers to work together and maintain a complete history of their work.
 Listed below are the functions of a VCS: 
· Allows developers to work simultaneously. 
· Does not allow overwriting each other’s changes. 
· Maintains a history of every version.

 Following are the types of VCS:
 · Centralized version control system (CVCS).
 · Distributed/Decentralized version control system (DVCS).

Centralized version control system (CVCS) uses a central server to store all files and enables team collaboration. if the central server goes down for an hour, then during that hour, no one can collaborate at all. Here, distributed version control system (DVCS) comes into picture. DVCS clients not only check out the latest snapshot of the directory, but they also fully mirror the repository. If the sever goes down, then the repository from any client can be copied back to the server to restore it. Every checkout is a full backup of the repository.


Why GIT tool is better than other tools??
Free and open source.
Backup
Branching
Remote Repositories
Speed
Robust
Integrity

Few Important terminologies to remember: -
Branches are used to create another line of development. By default, Git has a master branch, which is same as trunk in Subversion. Usually, a branch is created to work on a new feature. Once the feature is completed, it is merged back with the master branch and we delete the branch.Clone operation creates the instance of the repository. Clone operation not only checks out the working copy, but it also mirrors the complete repository. Users can perform many operations with this local repository.Pull operation copies the changes from a remote repository instance to a local one. The pull operation is used for synchronization between two repository instances. This is same as the update operation in Subversion.Push operation copies changes from a local repository instance to a remote one. This is used to store the changes permanently into the Git repository. This is same as the commit operation in Subversion.Commit holds the current state of the repository. A commit is also named by SHA1 hash. You can consider a commit object as a node of the linked list. Every commit object has a pointer to the parent commit object.



COMMITING FILES INTO GIT
STEPS:



